Hello, and welcome! In this video we will learn the difference
between linear regression and logistic regression. We go over linear regression and see why it
cannot be used properly for some binary classification problems.
We also look at the Sigmoid function, which is the main part of logistic regression.
Let’s start.
Let’s look at the telecommunication dataset again.
The goal of logistic regression is to build a model to predict the class of each customer,
and also the probability of each sample belonging to a class.
Ideally, we want to build a model, y^, that can estimate that the class of a customer
is 1, given its features, x. I want to emphasize that y is the “labels
vector,” also called “actual values” that we would like to predict, and y^ is the
vector of the predicted values by our model. Mapping the class labels to integer numbers,
can we use linear regression to solve this problem?
First, let’s recall how linear regression works to better understand logistic regression.
Forget about the churn prediction for a minute, and assume our goal is to predict the income
of customers in the dataset. This means that instead of predicting churn,
which is a categorical value, let’s predict income, which is a continuous value.
So, how can we do this? Let’s select an independent variable, such
as customer age, and predict a dependent variable, such as income.
Of course we can have more features, but for the sake of simplicity, let’s just take
one feature here. We can plot it, and show age as an independent
variable, and income as the target value we would like to predict.
With linear regression, you can fit a line or polynomial through the data.
We can find this line through the training of our model, or calculating it mathematically
based on the sample sets. We’ll say this is a straight line through
the sample set. This line has an equation shown as  a+b_x1.
Now, use this line to predict the continuous value y, that is, use this line to predict
the income of an unknown customer based on his or her age.
And it is done.
What if we want to predict churn? Can we use the same technique to predict a
categorical field such as churn? OK, let’s see.
Say we’re given data on customer churn and our goal this time is to predict the churn
of customers based on their age. We have a feature, age denoted as x1, and
a categorical feature, churn, with two classes: churn is yes and churn is no.
As mentioned, we can map yes and no to integer values, 0 and 1.
How can we model it now? Well, graphically, we could represent our
data with a scatter plot. But this time we have only 2 values for the
y axis. In this plot, class zero is denoted in red
and class one is denoted in blue. Our goal here is to make a model based on
existing data, to predict if a new customer is red or blue.
Let’s do the same technique that we used for linear regression here to see if we can
solve the problem for a categorical attribute, such as churn.
With linear regression, you again can fit a polynomial through the data, which is shown
traditionally as a + b_x. This polynomial can also be shown traditionally
as θ_0 + θ_1 x_1. This line has 2 parameters, which are shown
with vector θ, where the values of the vector are θ_0 and θ_1.
We can also show the equation of this line formally as θ^T X.
And generally, we can show the equation for a multi-dimensional space as θ^T X, where
θ is the parameters of the line in 2-dimensional space, or parameters of a plane in 3-dimensional
space, and so on. As θ is a vector of parameters, and is supposed
to be multiplied by X, it is shown conventionally as T^θ.
θ is also called the “weight vector” or “confidences of the equation” -- with
both of these terms used interchangeably. And X is the feature set, which represents
a customer. Anyway, given a dataset, all the feature sets
X, θ parameters, can be calculated through an optimization algorithm or mathematically,
which results in the equation of the fitting line.
For example, the parameters of this line are -1 and 0.1 and the equation for the line is
-1 + 0.1 x1.
Now, we can use this regression line to predict the churn of the new customer.
For example, for our customer, or let’s say a data point with x value of age=13, we
can plug the value into the line formula, and the y value is calculated and returns
a number. For instance, for p1 point we have:
θ^T X = -1 + 0.1 x x_1 = -1 + 0.1 x 13
= 0.3 We can show it on our graph.
Now we can define a threshold here, for example at 0.5, to define the class.
So, we write a rule here for our model, y^,
which allows us to separate class 0 from class 1.
If the value of θ^T X is less than 0.5, then the class is 0, otherwise, if the value of
θ^T X is more than 0.5, then the class is 1.
And because our customer’s y value is less than the threshold, we can say it belongs
to class 0, based on our model. But there is one problem here; what is the
probability that this customer belongs to class 0?
As you can see, it’s not the best model to solve this problem.
Also, there are some other issues, which verify that linear regression is not the proper method
for classification problems.
So, as mentioned, if we use the regression line to calculate the class of a point, it
always returns a number, such as 3, or -2, and so on.
Then, we should use a threshold, for example, 0.5, to assign that point to either class
of 0 or 1. This threshold works as a step function that
outputs 0 or 1, regardless of how big or small, positive or negative, the input is.
So, using the threshold, we can find the class of a record.
Notice that in the step function, no matter how big the value is, as long as it’s greater
than 0.5, it simply equals 1. And vice versa, regardless of how small the value y is, the
output would be zero if it is less than 0.5. In other words, there is no difference between
a customer who has a value of one or 1000; the outcome would be 1.
Instead of having this step function, wouldn’t it be nice if we had a smoother line - one
that would project these values between zero and one?
Indeed, the existing method does not really give us the probability of a customer belonging
to a class, which is very desirable. We need a method that can give us the probability
of falling in a class as well. So, what is the scientific solution here?
Well, if instead of using θ^T X we use a
specific function called sigmoid, then, sigmoid of θ^T X gives us the probability of a point
belonging to a class, instead of the value of y directly.
I’ll explain this sigmoid function in a second, but for now, please accept that it
will do the trick. Instead of calculating the value of θ^T X
directly, it returns the probability that a θ^T X is very big or very small.
It always returns a value between 0 and 1 depending on how large the θ^T X actually
is. Now, our model is σ(θ^T X), which represents
the probability that the output is 1, given x.
Now the question is, “What is the sigmoid function?”
Let me explain in detail what sigmoid really is.
The sigmoid function, also called the logistic function, resembles the step function and
is used by the following expression in the logistic regression.
The sigmoid function looks a bit complicated at first, but don’t worry about remembering
this equation. It’ll make sense to you after working with it.
Notice that in the sigmoid equation, when
θ^T X gets very big, the〖e〗^(-θ^T X) in the denominator of the fraction becomes
almost zero, and the value of the sigmoid function gets closer to 1.
If θ^T X is very small, the sigmoid function gets closer to zero.
Depicting on the in sigmoid plot, when θ^T X , gets bigger, the value of the sigmoid
function gets closer to 1, and also, if the θ^T X is very small, the sigmoid function
gets closer to zero. So, the sigmoid function’s output is always
between 0 and 1, which makes it proper to interpret the results as probabilities.
It is obvious that when the outcome of the sigmoid function gets closer to 1, the probability
of y=1, given x, goes up, and in contrast, when the sigmoid value is closer to zero,
the probability of y=1, given x, is very small.
So what is the output of our model when we use the sigmoid function?
In logistic regression, we model the probability that an input (X) belongs to the default class
(Y=1), and we can write this formally as, P(Y=1|X).
We can also write P(y=0|X) = 1 -P(y=1|x). For example, the probability of a customer
staying with the company can be shown as probability of churn equals 1 given a customer’s income
and age, which can be, for instance, 0.8. And the probability of churn is 0, for the
same customer, given a customer’s income and age can be calculated as 1-0.8=0.2.
So, now, our job is to train the model to set its parameter values in such a way that
our model is a good estimate of P(y=1∣x). In fact, this is what a good classifier model
built by logistic regression is supposed to do for us.
Also, it should be a good estimate of P(y=0∣x) that can be shown as 1-σ(θ^T X).
Now, the question is: "How we can achieve this?"
We can find 𝜃 through the training process, so let’s see what the training process is.
Step 1. Initialize 𝜃 vector with random values, as with most machine learning algorithms,
for example −1 or 2.
Step 2. Calculate the model output, which is σ(θ^T X), for a sample customer in your
training set. X in θ^T X is the feature vector values -- for
example, the age and income of the customer, for instance [2,5].
And θ is the confidence or weight that you’ve set in the previous step.
The output of this equation is the prediction value … in other words, the probability
that the customer belongs to class 1.
Step 3. Compare the output of our model, y^, which could be a value of, let’s say, 0.7,
with the actual label of the customer, which is for example, 1 for churn.
Then, record the difference as our model’s error for this customer, which would be 1-0.7,
which of course equals 0.3. This is the error for only one customer out of all the customers
in the training set.
Step. 4. Calculate the error for all customers as we did in the previous steps, and add up
these errors. The total error is the cost of your model,
and is calculated by the model’s cost function. The cost function, by the way, basically represents
how to calculate the error of the model, which is the difference between the actual and the
model’s predicted values. So, the cost shows how poorly the model is
estimating the customer’s labels. Therefore, the lower the cost, the better
the model is at estimating the customer’s labels correctly.
And so, what we want to do is to try to minimize this cost.
Step 5. But, because the initial values for θ were chosen randomly, it’s very likely
that the cost function is very high. So, we change the 𝜃 in such a way to hopefully
reduce the total cost.
Step 6. After changing the values of θ, we go back to step 2.
Then we start another iteration, and calculate the cost of the model again.
And we keep doing those steps over and over, changing the values of θ each time, until
the cost is low enough. So, this brings up two questions: first, "How
can we change the values of θ so that the cost is reduced across iterations?"
And second, "When should we stop the iterations?" There are different ways to change the values
of θ, but one of the most popular ways is gradient descent.
Also, there are various ways to stop iterations, but essentially you stop training by calculating
the accuracy of your model, and stop it when it’s satisfactory.
Thanks for watching this video!